# 2023StressModelHRV

First download the SWELL and WESAD datasets from the following link:  https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/qiriro/stress

Abstract: Approximately 65% of the worldwide adult population has experienced stress, affecting their daily routine at least once in the past year. Stress becomes harmful when it occurs for too long or is continuous (e.g., chronic), interfering with our performance, attention, and concentration. Chronic high stress contributes to major health issues such as heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, depression, and anxiety. Several researchers have focused on detecting stress by combining many features with machine/deep learning models. Despite these efforts, our community has not agreed on the number of features to identify stress conditions using wearable devices. In addition, most of the reported studies have been focused on person-specific training and testing. Thanks to our community's broad acceptance of wearable wristband devices, this work investigates a global stress detection model combining eight Heart rate variability (HRV) features with a Random Forest (RF) algorithm. Whereas the model’s performance is evaluated for each individual, the training of the RF model contains instances of all subjects (i.e., global training). We have validated the proposed global stress model using two open-access databases (the WESAD and SWELL da-tabases) and their combination. The eight HRV features with the highest classifier power are se-lected by the minimum redundancy maximum relevance (mRMR) method, reducing the training time of the global stress platform. The proposed global stress monitoring model identifies per-son-specific stress events with an accuracy higher than 99% after a global training framework. Future work should be focused on testing this global stress monitoring framework in real-world applications.

# Acknowledgements
Credit for datasets goes to the original authors of the WESAD and SWELL datasets [1-4]. Credit for data preprocessing and feature engineering goes to [5]. If you use their data please cite the following papers:

1. S. Koldijk, M. A. Neerincx, and W. Kraaij, “Detecting Work Stress in Offices by Combining Unobtrusive Sensors,” IEEE Trans. Affect. Comput., vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 227–239, 2018.
2. S. Koldijk, M. Sappelli, S. Verberne, M. A. Neerincx, and W. Kraaij, “The SWELL Knowledge Work Dataset for Stress and User Modeling Research,” Proc. 16th Int. Conf. Multimodal Interact. - ICMI ’14, pp. 291–298, 2014.
3. Kraaij, Prof.dr.ir. W. (Radboud University & TNO); Koldijk, MSc. S. (TNO & Radboud University); Sappelli, MSc M. (TNO & Radboud University) (2014): The SWELL Knowledge Work Dataset for Stress and User Modeling Research. DANS. https://doi.org/10.17026/dans-x55-69zp
4. Schmidt, P., Reiss, A., Duerichen, R., Marberger, C., & Van Laerhoven, K. (2018). Introducing WESAD, a Multimodal Dataset for Wearable Stress and Affect Detection. Proceedings of the 2018 on International Conference on Multimodal Interaction - ICMI ’18, 400–408. https://doi.org/10.1145/3242969.3242985
5. Nkurikiyeyezu, K., Yokokubo, A., & Lopez, G. (2020). The Effect of Person-Specific Biometrics in Improving Generic Stress Predictive Models. Journal of Sensors & Material, 1–12. http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.01770
